(energetic music)
-: Now in this course,
we are mainly using Cisco Packet Tracer
to simulate networks.
Cisco Packet Tracer is fantastic software.
It allows us to simulate all kinds of networks.
We can simulate routers, we can simulate switches,
we can simulate wireless access points,
wireless LAN controllers,
all kinds of devices can be simulated
using Cisco Packet Tracer,
but it's a simulator.
It doesn't actually show us what's happening
in a real network.
It gets us a long way there.
Fantastic software
for building virtual networks on your laptop,
but if you really wanna see
what's actually happening on a network,
you need to use something like Wireshark.
So in this course I'm gonna show you Wireshark captures
and we are gonna dig deep into the packets.
We are going to look at applications such
as HTTP, FTP and others.
I'm gonna show you how you can capture passwords
off the wire or off the air
if you are using a wireless network.
So basically, Wireshark is what's called
a protocol analyzer.
It captures traffic off the wire
and allows you to view packets that have been sent
by either your device or other devices.
If you use a mode called Promiscuous Mode.
Basically, Wireshark is a fantastic tool
that network engineers use to analyze networks
and find out if there are problems on a network.
(energetic music)
In this example, it's gonna be voiceover IP traffic.
In other words, we are gonna capture traffic
between virtual phones as shown here
as well as virtual phones and physical phones.
I'm gonna make calls between these two phones
and then we are gonna capture the traffic
and then replay the voice call.
And we are gonna use Wireshark for that.
This is my second call, David Bombal speaking to himself.
Click "Play streams" and there's our voice call.
"This is my second call, David Bombal speaking to himself."
Now to make it easier for you,
rather than you trying to build
some of the networks that I've created in this course,
I've captured the packets in Wireshark
and I've attached them to the course.
So all you need to do is download the Wireshark captures
and then you can follow along and follow what I'm doing.
So you can actually try this yourself.
Rather than trying to build a whole network,
capture the packets and then try and follow along,
you can simply download the Wireshark captures.
So I've made this a lot easier for you.
Just download the Wireshark captures
and then you can try this yourself.
Now obviously if you want to try this in your networks,
either at home or in the office and so forth,
but be careful.
You need to have permission to capture traffic,
especially if you're gonna be capturing passwords.
So don't just go and capture any traffic anywhere.
You could land in trouble.
So make sure that you have permission
to capture the packets of a network
if it's not your own private network.
Okay, so in the next video
I'm gonna show you how to download Wireshark,
how to install it on a Windows computer
and I'll also show you how to install it on a Mac.
And then I'm gonna show you
how to interpret Wireshark captures,
a really important skill to have.
It's important that you know how to read Wireshark captures.
So I'm introducing this now.
It's quite a complex topic.
You may struggle.
Now, please don't worry if you struggle initially.
All of us initially struggle with new technologies.
Keep on studying, keep on learning, do the labs.
That's probably the best advice I can give you.
Keep on trying, keep on learning and you'll get it.
Okay, so that's enough said about Wireshark.
In the next video
I'm gonna show you how to download and install Wireshark.
(energetic music)